[Page 1]
1 (6) 
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
§
 
 
Vacancy Notice 
The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is launching this call for expressions of interest in 
order to establish a reserve list for the following temporary agent profile:  
  
Reference number ECHA/TA/2026/04 
Job Title Scientific Officer – Ecotoxicologist and Toxicologist (2 profiles) 
Function Group/Grade Temporary Agent, AD 5 (see the Guide for Applicants for more 
information) 
Location Helsinki, Finland 
Publication Date 10 September 2026 
Deadline for 
Applications 15 October 2026, at noon, 12:00 Helsinki time (11:00 CET) 
Indicative number of 
candidates on the 
reserve list 
15 
 
 
1. Who we are 
The European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is a multicultural and multidisciplinary organisation 
of about 600 professionals from 28 countries. Our everyday work is shaped by our values of 
integrity, transparency, collaboration and innovation. ECHA is one of Finland’s most inspiring 
workplaces, based on our staff survey results. We empower our people to develop together 
and facilitate high performance, engagement and flexibility. 
Our purpose is to protect health and the environment through our work for chemical safety, 
by means of science, collaboration and knowledge.  We implement EU chemicals laws and 
policy through technical, scientific, and administrative tasks and provide independent, high-
quality scientific opinions and decisions to serve as the basis for EU measures on chemical 
safety. We collaborate with EU institutions, EU countries’ authorities and other bodies, and 
support companies in fulfilling their duties under chemical legislation, and we make relevant, 
reliable and objective information available to our stakeholders. 
ECHA welcomes job applications from qualified professionals all over the European Union and 
the European Economic Area. We are committed to diversity and inclusion , aiming to secure 
equal opportunities at every step of the career, including selections and recruitment. 
Candidates who are judged to be the most suitable, based on the assessment in the selection 
process, will be placed on the reserve list, from which they may be recruited.

[Page 2]
2 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
 
2. Is this job for you? 
 
Are you looking for an inspiring opportunity to work in a leading organisation at the EU and 
international level, and contribute to protecting the environment and human health?  
We are looking for Scientific Officers for two profiles in the fields of environmental sciences 
and human health toxicology. Scientific Officers may also work on the implementation of the 
new tasks recently taken over by ECHA, such as the Drinking Water Directives (DWD) and 
Batteries Regulation. In addition, ECHA ’s growing mandate includes several amended 
Directives and Regulations, e.g. the Water Framework, Environmental Quality Standards, and 
Groundwater Directives, the Industrial Emissions Directive, the End -of-Life Vehicles (ELV) 
Directive, the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
(RoHS) Directive and the Toys Safety Regulation, which will also need such expertise.  
For the profile in ecotoxicology, the ideal candidate has knowledge and practical experience 
in different areas of environmental sciences related to ecotoxicology, environmental fate, and 
chemical hazard and risk assessment. In this call, we are especially interested in experts who 
have experience in nanomaterials and/or assessing persistency, bioaccumulation, mobility 
and toxicity (PBT/vPvB/PMT/vPvM properties), endocrine-disrupting ( ED) properties of 
chemical substances and/or in conducting use and exposure assessment.  
For the profile in human health toxicology, the ideal candidate has knowledge and practical 
experience in different areas of toxicological sciences. In this call, we are especially interested 
in experts who have experience in assessing hazards of carcinogenicity, reproductive toxicity, 
mutagenicity, repeated -dose toxicity,  neurotoxicity, ED properties  or nanomaterials  of 
chemical substances and risk assessment.  
For both profiles, the work requires ability to understand, interpret and use scientific  
information in a regulatory context (e.g. checking compliance with information requirements, 
assessment of hazards against classification criteria and generally performing or evaluating 
hazard or risk assessments), focusing on key elements and identifying inconsistencies, 
limitations and uncertainties. The ideal candidate can perform quick and robust analyses on 
available ecotoxicological and toxicological data and can communicate clearly and effectively. 
They have excellent project management skills, are solution-oriented and proactive, and have 
the drive to produce high -quality results within the given timelines. The ideal candidate is 
able to apply this knowledge while examining the reports of standard (eco)toxicology studies 
(in vivo and in vitro) as well as alternative methodologies. 
3. Key responsibilities  
 
Scientific Officers in the Agency work in one of the work areas covering scientific issues 
relating to the Evaluation, Authorisation, Restriction processes (REACH Regulation), the 
Biocidal Products Regulation (BPR), the Classification, Labelling, and Packaging (CLP) 
Regulation and the new tasks (e.g. water protection tasks). The Scientific Officer will work in 
multidisciplinary teams including scientists, lawyers and administrative colleagues evaluating 
and developing scientific and technical information on  different areas of toxicology, 
ecotoxicology, PBT and PMT assessment, ED assessment, exposure assessment, and risk  
assessment of chemical substances to human health and the environment. 
Please note that each candidate can apply to one of the profiles listed below only. 
Ensure to indicate the profile to which you are applying when submitting your 
application.

[Page 3]
3 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
Scientific Officers participate in specific operational areas of the Agency. Depending on 
organisational needs as well as the candidate’s background and interest, they will be 
responsible for some of the following tasks: 
 
Work profile 1: Ecotoxicologist 
 
• Evaluating registration dossiers (e.g., experimental studies and adaptations) against 
the information requirements in the REACH Regulation, examining testing proposals, 
preparing draft decisions, and responding to comments received on draft decisions;  
• Application and evaluation of methodologies alternative to animal testing, such as 
read-across, QSAR and grouping in regulatory risk assessment; 
• Assessing and providing expert opinions on ecotoxicology and environmental fate, the 
relevance and reliability of experimental studies, assessing and evaluating relevance 
and conclusions made in the environmental effect, exposure and PBT/PMT assessment 
and risk characterisation of substances; 
• Assessing the environmental hazard profile of chemical substances in relation to 
classification and labelling obligations (in particular PBT/vPvB, PMT/vPvM, and 
environmental endocrine disruptors’ criteria); 
• Preparing and/or supporting the development of the Agency’s decisions and opinions; 
• Preparing, managing, and follow -up of the meetings of ECHA’s Committees, relevant 
working groups, and expert groups, including support to their Chairs, rapporteurs, and 
dossier submitters; 
• Assessing reports prepared by the Member States competent authorities responsible 
for CLP and BPR; 
• Working on the implementation of ECHA’s tasks. 
 
Work profile 2: Toxicologist 
 
• Evaluating registration dossiers ( i.e., experimental studies and adaptations) against 
the information requirements in the REACH Regulation, examining testing proposals, 
preparing the corresponding draft decisions, and responding to comments received on 
draft decisions; 
• Application of methodologies alternative to animal testing, such as read-across, QSAR 
and grouping for the purpose of regulatory risk assessment; 
• Assessing and providing expert opinions on toxicology, the relevance and reliability of 
experimental studies, assessing and evaluating relevance and conclusions made in the 
toxicological effect, exposure and risk characterisation; 
• Assessing the toxicological hazard profile of chemical substances in relation to 
classification and labelling obligations (in particular carcinogenic, reprotoxic, 
mutagenic, and endocrine disruptors’ criteria); 
• Preparing and/or supporting the development of the Agency’s decisions and opinions; 
• Preparing, managing, and follow -up of the meetings of ECHA’s Committees, relevant 
working groups, and expert groups, including support to their Chairs, rapporteurs, and 
dossier submitters; 
• Assessing reports prepared by the Member States competent authorities responsible 
for CLP and BPR. 
• Working on the implementation of ECHA’s tasks.

[Page 4]
4 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
4. Eligibility criteria 
 
The selection procedure is open to applicants who satisfy the following eligibility criteria , on 
the closing date for application: 
 
a. General requirements 
The applicant must: 
• Be a national of a Member State of the European Union, or a national of the European 
Economic Area (Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway)1; 
• Enjoy the full rights as a citizen; 
• Have fulfilled any obligations imposed by the laws concerning military service;  
• Produce the appropriate character references as to the suitability for the performance 
of the duties2; 
• Be physically fit to perform the duties3; 
• Have a thorough knowledge of one of the official languages of the European Union 4 
and a satisfactory knowledge of another such language to the extent necessary to 
perform your duties; 
• Be able to communicate well in English as this is the working language of ECHA;  
• Be below the age at which staff of the EU is automatically retired, i.e. currently on the 
last day of the month in which he/she reaches the age of 66 5. 
 
b. Qualifications  
 
Successful completion of a full course of university studies attested by a degree, where the 
normal duration of university education is three (3) years or more. 
 
 
Only qualifications issued by EU Member State authorities or EEA authorities and 
qualifications recognized as equivalent by the relevant EU or EEA Member State  
authorities will be accepted. 
 
c. Professional experience 
 
There is no minimum professional experience requirement to be eligible for this profile.  
 
1 The Member States of the European Union are: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 
Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, 
Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden. 
2 Before appointment, successful applicants will be required to produce an official document indicating that they do 
not have a criminal record. 
3 Before appointment, successful applicants will be required to undergo a medical examination to ensure that they 
fulfil the requirements of Articles 12, 2 ( d) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European 
Union. 
4 The languages of the EU are: Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Irish, 
German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovene, 
Spanish, Swedish. 
5 See Article 47(a) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union.

[Page 5]
5 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
 
5. Selection criteria 
 
If you meet the eligibility criteria set out in section 4, you will be assessed on the basis of the 
following selection criteria. The candidates who are judged to be the most suitable on the 
basis of the selection criteria will be invited to the next stage of the selection process.  
 
For Profile 1 (Ecotoxicologist) 
 
• Your academic and professional qualifications and their relevance to the main 
areas of work listed in section 3; 
 
Your university degree must be in environmental sciences , biology, chemistry or 
another closely related natural science discipline. 
Preference will be given to qualifications obtained in or covering the following fields:  
o Ecotoxicology; 
o Environmental fate; 
o Environmental endocrine disruptors; 
o Environmental risk assessment of chemical substances (e.g. industrial 
chemicals, pesticides, biocides).  
 
• Your professional experience: Preference will be given to candidates having  
experience in functions similar to those outlined in section 3. The Selection Committee 
will assess the range of fields covered, the type, and level of work done and its 
relevance to the areas of work listed in section 3. 
 
The following will be considered as assets:  
• Practical experience in conducting or interpreting experimental studies or data 
generated by New Approach Methodologies (NAM) for hazard or risk assessment; 
• Scientific publications as the corresponding author in a relevant field, or experience 
with preparing regulatory dossiers or guidance material (e.g. REACH, CLP, BPR, POP); 
• Documented experience in data curation and statistical analysis (demonstrated 
through scientific publications, regulatory assessments, technical reports or equivalent 
outputs);  
• Work experience gained in a similar multicultural environment. Preference will be given 
to work experience abroad. 
 
Your academic and professional qualifications, professional experience and knowledge and 
experience considered as an asset  must be described as precisely as possible in your 
application. 
 
For Profile 2 (Toxicologist) 
 
• Your academic and professional qualifications  and their relevance to the main 
areas of work listed in section 3; 
 
Your university degree must be in toxicological sciences. 
Preference will be given to qualifications obtained in or covering the following fields: 
 
o Toxicology; 
o Pharmacology; 
o Biomedical sciences, covering human health risk assessment of

[Page 6]
6 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
chemical substances (e.g. industrial chemicals, pesticides, biocides). 
 
• Your professional experience : Preference will be given to candidates having 
experience in functions similar to those outlined in section 3. The Selection Committee 
will assess the range of fields covered, the type  and level of work done  and its 
relevance to the areas of work listed in section 3. 
 
The following will be considered as assets:  
• Practical experience in conducting or interpreting experimental studies or data 
generated by New Approach Methodologies (NAM) for hazard or risk assessment; 
• Scientific publications as the corresponding author in a relevant field, or experience 
with preparing regulatory dossiers or guidance material (e.g. REACH, CLP, BPR, POP); 
• Documented experience in data curation and statistical analysis (demonstrated 
through scientific publications, regulatory assessments, technical reports or equivalent 
outputs);  
• Work experience gained in a similar multicultural environment. Preference will be given 
to work experience abroad. 
 
Your academic and professional qualifications, professional experience and knowledge and 
experience considered as an asset must be described as precisely as possible in your 
application.  
 
6. Interview and written test 
 
If selected for written test and/or interview, you will be assessed on the basis of the following 
criteria: 
 
6.1 Specific knowledge related to the post:  
 
• Knowledge and understanding in your scientific areas that are most relevant to the 
tasks set out in section 3; 
• Knowledge in REACH, CLP or Biocides legislations or alternatively, a strong knowledge 
of another related legislation. 
 
6.2 General competencies6 and conduct required for the job:  
 
• Interpersonal and negotiation skills; 
• Ability to identify key information in complex scientific documents and interpret this 
information in the applicable regulatory framework; 
• Ability to communicate effectively complex scientific and technical matters; 
 
6 You can read more about the general competencies in place in ECHA through the following link:  
https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/17100/echa_staff_competencies_en.pdf/81a7fbbf-730a-4bc2-9681-
24095900028c?t=1476375368217  
https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/17100/echa_managment_competencies_en.pdf/6c33d427-1c3c-426f-
bba9-589d46dea016?t=1476780992051

[Page 7]
7 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
• Aptitude for working in a multidisciplinary and multicultural environment;  
• Excellent command of spoken and written English. 
 
Your ability to communicate in spoken/written English, and the knowledge, skills and 
competencies related to the job will be assessed throughout the written tests and interviews. 
 
For native English speakers, your ability to communicate in your second EU language will 
be tested during the selection process. As this forms part of the general requirements stated 
under section 4.a General Requirements from above, any failure in proving the satisfactory 
level of your second EU language would lead to your exclusion from the selection. 
 
Interviews and written tests may be organised remotely. 
 
 
7. Placement on the reserve list 
 
If you are judged to be among the most suitable candidates, on the basis of the criteria listed 
in sections 4, 5 and 6, you will be placed on the reserve list. The reserve list will be valid for 
a period of two years, with the possibility of extension. 
 
It should be noted that inclusion on the reserve lists does not imply any entitlement of 
employment in the Agency. 
 
At ECHA, we believe in continuous learning and flexible work assignments to ensure the best 
use of our human resources and to maintain a high level of staff motivation and expertise. 
Hence, your career at ECHA, once recruited, may lead you to another role within ECHA in the 
future. 
 
8. What we offer 
 
a. Engagement and conditions of employment 
 
Successful applicants may be offered an employment contract for five years as a temporary 
agent, in the grade AD 5. This contract may be renewed for a definite period. If renewed for 
a second time, the contract becomes indefinite. If the successful applicant from the external 
selection procedure is already a member of temporary staff 2(f) in the relevant function group 
or another function group, the Agency shall offer the person, in writing, the opportunity to be 
assigned to the post by means of mobility under the provisions of Article 6(2) 7 or, subject to 
the establishment plan availabilities, Article 10 9 respectively, if the person prefers to ensure 
continuity of contracts. 
 
The successful applicant will be required to make a declaration of commitment to act 
independently in the public interest and to make an annual declaration with respect to any 
interests which might be considered prejudicial to their independence. Moreover, before 
recruiting a member of staff, ECHA’s Executive Director will examine whether the applicant 
has any personal interest which may  impair their independence or any other conflict of 
interest. To that end, the applicant, using a specific form, shall inform the Executive Director 
 
7 Implementing rules on the procedure governing the engagement and use of temporary staff under Article 2(f) of 
the CEOS: 
https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/17100/MB_DECISION_03_2018_4_MB49_FINAL.pdf/7087cc5b-2dee-
aade-0de0-bcdb47aa605d

[Page 8]
8 (8) 
  
P.O. Box 400, FI-00121 Helsinki, Finland | Tel. +358 9 686180 | echa.europa.eu 
 
of any actual or potential conflict of interest. Applicants must confirm their willingness to do 
so in their application. 
 
b. Salary & benefits 
  
The successful candidate will be recruited as a Temporary Agent Grade AD 5 with the basic  
monthly gross salary starting from 6152,64 EUR, subject to an annual review of remuneration 
provided for in Article 65(1) of the Staff Regulations. To reflect the higher  cost of living in 
Finland, the basic salary is weighted by applying a coefficient (currently at 110,8%). The basic 
salary indicated above is the amount before the adjustment. 
 
In addition to the basic salary, ECHA may grant a range of allowances and benefits, depending 
on the individual’s personal circumstances and eligibility. These may include a household 
allowance, an expatriation allowance (16% of the basic salary) and a dependent child 
allowance, as well as a welfare package including pension scheme, medical and accident 
coverage. 
 
The following examples illustrate possible net monthly remuneration for a Temporary Agent  
Grade AD 5 step 1: 
• Basic salary (net): € 5242,18 
• Basic salary plus expatriation allowance (net): € 6332,92 
• Basic salary plus expatriation, household and one dependent child allowances  
(net): € 7625,47 
 
These examples take into account the correction coefficient for Finland and compulsory 
deductions (EU tax, pension and social security contributions). 
All salaries and allowances are subject to EU tax deducted at source and are exempt from 
national taxation. The exact net remuneration will vary depending on individual 
circumstances. 
 
For more information on the salary and on the allowances, please visit our website at: 
https://www.echa.europa.eu/web/guest/open-positions.   
 
 
9. Other information 
 
For more information on the selection process of temporary agents and on the contractual 
and working conditions, please refer to: 
• Guide for Applicants: 
https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/17100/general_guide_for_applicants_en.pdf/cd910
e74-63ba-4cdd-b87f-29f0a77d0fea?t=1614948381191  
• Implementing rules concerning temporary agents: 
https://echa.europa.eu/documents/10162/17100/MB_DECISION_03_2018_4_MB49_FINAL.pd
f/7087cc5b-2dee-aade-0de0-bcdb47aa605d  
• Conditions of Employment of Other Servants  of the European Union: 
http://eurlex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CONSLEG:1962R0031:20140101:EN:P
DF 
• Protection of personal data : The European Chemicals Agency will ensure, on its 
part, that your personal data is processed as required by Regulation  (EU) 2018/1725 
on the protection of personal data.  
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32018R1725&from=EN